>> Scott Moss: So relationships.
I saw some people downloading this
earlier, I think they saw it coming,
how to link pets with users and
users with pets and so forth.
So in our database,
there is no relationships.
But we want to virtualize those
relationships with GraphQL and
this is where it gets really powerful.
And this is where you end up in the place
where people will dedash you or
stuff like that.
So it's like super powerful but
at the same time very dangerous.
This is basically the graph in GraphQL, so
saying that,
let's talk about thinking in graphs.
So your API is no longer a predefined
list of operations that you always return
the same shapes.
So for instance, like in REST, you have
to literally create all the routes,
with these verbs, and these parameters,
and maybe these query strings and
they're predefined ahead of time that's
the only thing your client can do.
Well, in this graph implementation you
have no idea how someone's gonna access
your server and instead you just say,
here are these nodes they look like these.
Here is the connections between
these nodes, they exist here,
do whatever you want, in fact,
you can do whatever you want.
And it's that way all the way down,
no matter how deep it is,
no matter how many nested node you have,
it's going that way all the way down
until you hit a scholar or
some primitive value, right?
That's how a graph works.
So friends can have friends, they can
have friends, they can have friends,
they can have friends,
they can have friends.
All the way until you don't want any
more friends to show wherever that is.
But they they can be cyclic.
They can be recursive.
They can be all of those things.
So because of that, yeah, I mean, could
you imagine writing a controller on your
database to resolve a REST throughout and
it was recursive?
It just went on forever, like probably not
a good idea, I probably wouldn't do that,
so that's why people use Graph databases.
So instead, your API is a set of nodes
that know how to resolve themselves and
have links to other nodes.
This allows a client to ask for
nodes and then follow those
links to get related nodes.
And that's basically nodes and
edges inside of graph,
and that's the graph in GraphQL.
And we're about to experiment
with some of that.
Any questions on that when I'm even like
thinking and graphs, because I think
that's the biggest hurdle for people when
they switch over to GraphQL it's they're
thinking, well,
how is someone gonna access these data and
he doesn't have to do this, like no,
you don't have to think about it.
You don't have to think any of it.
Just make a resolver
that resolves the field.
And as long as all of your
fields are accounted for,
automatically or directly by you, you're
good, you don't have to do anything else.
And so you have performance issues and
even then you're not worrying about
specific queries, you are worrying
about every query [LAUGH].
So there's not one scenario
you're concerned about.
You're concerned about the generic
possibility of all the scenarios and
that's what you have to account for.
>> Scott Moss: So adding relationships,
how does this work?
So you can add a type as
a field value on another type.
And then you can just create resolvers for
those fields on the type.
It's that simple.
So if I were to come here and so
I have a user and I have a shoe.
I can say users, you could see I already
have this one here for friends but
I'm gonna do shoes now.
Users have shoes, and exists as shoe,
and it's not null, right?
I can also go the other way around and
I could say, a shoe has a user,
and its user is not null.
And I want my database
doesn't have to reflect this.
My database doesn't have to have,
this one too many relationship that I just
described inside of my graph field schema.
Doesn't need to know about it at all.
Because we're virtualizing and we're gonna
do all this with inside the resolvers